
- In the broadest sense, decolonization involves identifying colonial systems, structures, and relationships, and working to challenge them. For the field of science, it suggests that we should question our understanding of science as something that grew solely from the discoveries of a series of famous, western individuals. Instead, we should recognize that there are colonial roots in science that can arise from both commerce and imperialism. The aim of “decolonizing the sciences” is therefore to develop a more complete scientific perspective that better includes global voices. 
-  Funding disparities mean that scientists and politicians in wealthier nations predominantly make decisions about which societal problems should be addressed and control the scientific narrative. This can leave significant parts of the globe disenfranchised in terms of access to science in order to solve its problems. 
-  In the UK, there is a 16.1% attainment gap between the number of high-quality degrees (1st or 2:1) awarded to White UK- domiciled students compared to UK-domiciled students from ethnic minority groups.6 Furthermore, 42% of Black UK students say that the curriculum does not reflect issues of diversity, equality, and discrimination. 
-  Universities UK published a key report in 2019 on closing the attainment gap. 
-  The first formal step of our decolonizing project was to form a steering group. 
-  There is a belief among some scientists that to decolonize STEM would involve removing the teaching of well- established parts of science or somehow “dumbing-down” the curriculum. Furthermore, some scientists feel that because science teaches “objective truth”, well-established “discoveries”, and “facts”, it does not suffer from colonial influences and attitudes, and that such a treatment is unnecessary. We encountered such objections early in the project in our own department, despite EDI being well-established and widely accepted. As we will outline below, the view of science as “objective” and “factual” is a simplistic one, which fails to recognize the way in which science developed, the environment in which scientists work, and the societal contexts in which science continues to this day. It is therefore essential to communicate clearly about the aims, objectives, and strategies of efforts to decolonize the sciences. We communicated with our staff and students throughnumber of different channels including an article in the departmental monthly newsletter,14 brief items in the staff and student weekly bulletins, oral presentations at staff meetings, and shout-outs at the start of undergraduate lectures. All of these communications ended with an invitation to individuals to get involved. In this way, the project was owned by the whole department from the outset. 
-  expanding the curriculum to be inclusive and intersectional, for example, by including the scientific work of individuals from a broad range of underrepresented back-grounds. 
- These are the initial activities we conducted to start decolonizing the University of York chemistry curriculum: 
	- Fact finding and gathering of best practice on what decolonizing a curriculum means for a science depart- ment. 
	- Collection of examples of good practice from current lecture courses delivered in our department, compiled into a document, and circulated to all academic staff with encouragement to consider refreshing lecture courses using similar examples. a a it a https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jchemed.1c00397 J. Chem. Educ. 2022, 99, 5−Journal of Chemical Education pubs.acs.org/jchemeduc 
	- Compilation of a set of examples highlighting the work of Black chemists, circulated to academics to provide further examples for incorporating in lecture material. 
	- Compilation of a resource on internationally recognized scientists from the Indian continent by Professor Dame Pratibha Gai that was shared with the department. 
	- Commissioning of a set of photographic images to be displayed in the department, highlighting the work of historic global chemists. 
	- Black History month celebrated by activities open to all students and staff. • Departmental culture survey conducted of our under- graduate students, with results analyzed by ethnicity, leading to an action plan for greater inclusion.

**IS TO IT DECOLONIZING POSSIBLE TO TAKE CHEMISTRY? A STRATEGIC APPROACH**

- Impacts of Chemistry in Dif ferent Global Contexts. Applications of chemistry can depend on where they are applied. Understanding the diversity of global contexts better equips students to innovate in ways which will benefit different people across the world. 
- Diverse Histories of Chemistry and Science. The history of science is often taught in a simple linear way, focused on European and North American experiences. It is important to accurately present the different global thoughts and influences that have contributed to scientific development. This can engage the interest of all students and also produce graduates with a degree of literacy in science history. 
- Role Model Scientists from Different Backgrounds and Cultures. The importance of role models is well- established in STEM:21 Inclusion of such role models, either as educators or examples, can foster a sense of belonging among minoritized groups and encourage them to see that they too can achieve success. 
- Science as a Global Endeavor. In much science education, there is a focus on the “inventor” as a “lone genius”, well- known to be somewhat of a myth. There is a vital need to reflect on the importance of teamwork, and the global nature of science, both in terms of the diversity of teams, and the collaborative nature of modern science across borders. This can be partly taught through teamwork exercises, for example in teaching laboratories. 
-  Structures and Hierarchies in Science. Structures and hierarchies in science exist and often operate against minoritized groups.22 We need to educate the next generation of scientists to be inclusive and equitable in their approach. The value of listening to diverse voices should be emphasized. This can be fostered through teaching students about “Being a Professional Chemist” and through group exercises. •
- Student Voice and Leadership. Our own student body has played a key role in encouraging us to start the decolonization process. It is essential that the student https://doi.org/10.1021/acs.jchemed.1c00397 J. Chem. Educ. 2022, 99, 5−Journal of Chemical Education pubs.acs.org/jchemeduc voice is heard and fostered. This can be achieved academically and pastorally. For example, in a year 1 course on polymer chemistry, students in York make YouTube videos on topics that matter to them, in their 23day-to-day context. These videos then go on to influence others around the world. This challenges traditional structures and hierarchies in science and also centers the voice and concerns of the individual students, many of whom are from minoritized groups. In our Green Chemistry & Sustainable Industrial Technology Masters program, the internationally diverse cohort of students celebrated “World Earth Day” by listening to one another talk about their own lived experiences, and the need to work collectively in order to solve global environmental issues. 
- we are in no way advocating that chemistry departments should de-emphasize the key principles and theories of science; obviously, these are vital. The scientific theories are not “wrong”. However, we are encouraging educators to reflect critically on the context in which they teach these principles, and the applications with which they choose to exemplify them. We suggest that where it is possible to present a meaningful global view with diverse influences and applications, and reflect on ethics, structures, and hierarchies, alongside the science, then this opportunity should be taken. Our approach to decolonization impacts on all aspects of EDI, as it also applies to other minoritized groups such as women, LGBT+ communities, or those with disabilities, many of whom have historically been overlooked both in the history of science, and also in the way that modern science seeks to apply its knowledge and methodology to solving world problems. By keeping a checklist of where such “decolonization” and inclusion of diverse viewpoints are happening in their degrees, chemistry departments can ensure balance in their teaching and also target areas for enhanced coverage. 




